cur_disease_title: Abdominal pregnancy
cur_disease_others_title: (Also known as: intraperitoneal pregnancy, abdominal pregnancy)
Department: Departments: Emergency Department, Gynecology Department
introduce: Under normal circumstances, the embryo or fetus grows and develops in the female uterus. If for various reasons, the embryo grows outside the uterine cavity, it is called ectopic pregnancy. If it grows in the abdominal cavity, it is called abdominal pregnancy, also known as intraperitoneal pregnancy, abdominal pregnancy, etc.There are two types of abdominal pregnancy: primary and secondary. Primary abdominal pregnancy refers to the direct implantation of the fertilized egg in the peritoneum, mesentery, omentum, etc., which is extremely rare. Secondary abdominal pregnancy often occurs after abortion or rupture of tubal pregnancy, and occasionally after ovarian pregnancy or intrauterine pregnancy rupture.The most common symptom of this disease is severe abdominal pain, in addition, there are symptoms such as vaginal bleeding and early pregnancy reactions.
Causes: This disease can be divided into two types: primary and secondary. The cause of primary abdominal pregnancy is unknown, and secondary abdominal pregnancy often occurs after a miscarriage or rupture of a fallopian tube pregnancy, and occasionally after an ovarian pregnancy or an intrauterine pregnancy rupture.
Symptoms: The most common symptom of this disease is severe abdominal pain.Severe abdominal pain: It is the most common symptom of this disease, usually with persistent severe pain in the lower abdomen. In the late abdominal pregnancy, abdominal pain may worsen when fetal movement occurs.Early pregnancy reaction: Patients may experience dizziness in the morning, dislike of greasy food, nausea, vomiting and other symptoms.Vaginal bleeding: Patients often have abnormal vaginal bleeding, and the amount of bleeding is generally less than menstruation at this time.Feeling fetal movement: As the fetus grows, the patient will clearly feel the movement of the fetus in the abdomen. In the late abdominal pregnancy, the fetal limbs can be easily felt in the abdomen.Irregular uterine contractions: Lower abdominal cramps and pain similar to dysmenorrhea, but sometimes there is no regularity.High fever: The body temperature can reach above 39 ℃.Abdominal mass: You may feel a mass in your abdomen.
How to prevent it: Pay attention to personal hygiene and prevent pelvic inflammatory disease.Use safe and effective contraceptive measures and try to avoid using emergency contraceptive pills.After pregnancy through assisted reproductive technology (such as IVF, in vitro fertilization), if abdominal pain occurs, timely examination is required to rule out tubal pregnancy.Actively treat diseases such as uterine fibroids and ovarian tumors.
examine: This disease is mainly diagnosed and evaluated through blood HCG, imaging examinations, etc.Blood HCG: Mainly to determine whether the patient is pregnant.Ultrasound: It is currently the preferred examination method for abdominal pregnancy. If the doctor finds an image of the fetus in the abdominal cavity, the abdominal pregnancy can be confirmed. This examination is suitable for all pregnant women, especially those who are asymptomatic in the early stage.MRI examination: For those with abdominal pregnancy in the middle and late stages, MRI examination may be required before surgery. It can help doctors evaluate the relationship between the placenta and abdominal organs.Abdominal X-ray examination: For those who are about 20 weeks pregnant or more, abdominal X-ray can further confirm whether the fetus is in the abdominal cavity.
treatment: Once the disease is diagnosed, the pregnancy must be terminated immediately, and the main treatment method is surgical treatment.Surgical treatmentLaparoscopic surgery: suitable for patients with early abdominal pregnancy. The surgical wound is small and the damage to surrounding tissues is small.Open surgery: suitable for patients with mid- and late abdominal pregnancy. Open the abdomen to directly remove the fetus in the abdominal cavity and remove the pregnancy residue.Drug treatmentMethotrexate: It can destroy the trophoblastic cells that nourish the embryo, reduce the blood supply to the placenta, and promote placental absorption. It is suitable for people who have not yet been further diagnosed. Doctors may take this method for conservative treatment.Antibiotics: Commonly used drugs include cephalosporins, which can help prevent postoperative infections.
Precautions: Postoperative precautionsAfter surgery, keep the surgical area clean and dry to prevent infection.Get out of bed and walk as soon as possible after surgery, and gradually increase the amount of activity, which is conducive to avoiding postoperative complications.Pay attention to keeping the drainage tube and urinary catheter unobstructed to prevent pressure and folding.Precautions for taking methotrexateRegularly monitor the value of blood human chorionic gonadotropin. Return to the hospital for a follow-up examination on time according to the doctor's instructions to observe whether the blood human chorionic gonadotropin value has decreased.During treatment, pay attention to the adverse reactions of the drug, mainly gastrointestinal reactions, such as oral ulcers, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, gastrointestinal bleeding, etc.Keep the mouth clean and clean, rinse your mouth after three meals a day and drink plenty of water.Precautions for dischargeReturn to the hospital outpatient gynecology department for a follow-up examination 3 to 7 days after the next menstruation is over, mainly to review B-ultrasound and blood routine tests.If the doctor suspects that there is placenta residue in the patient's abdominal cavity, blood will be drawn regularly to monitor the value of β-human chorionic gonadotropin in the blood. Generally, the examination is performed once a month after surgery, and the examination is continued for 2 to 3 months.Sexual intercourse and bathing are prohibited within 1 month, and contraception should be used within 6 months.
Prognosis: If not treated in time, pregnant women are prone to heavy bleeding and infection, and have a higher risk of death.After regular treatment, most patients who are discovered early and actively receive treatment can be cured, and there is no impact on subsequent pregnancy and the patient's life expectancy.
