cur_disease_title: Abdominal aortic aneurysm
cur_disease_others_title: 
Department: Department: Vascular Surgery
introduce: Abdominal aortic aneurysm refers to the permanent localized dilation of the abdominal aorta. Generally, an aneurysm is defined as an increase in diameter of more than 50%.Most patients usually do not have clear symptoms, but if an aneurysm ruptures, the patient may experience severe abdominal pain, hypotension, and heavy bleeding. The condition is extremely dangerous and the patient will die within a short period of time.
Causes: Basic CausesThe most basic pathological changes of abdominal aortic aneurysm are the disappearance of the vascular endothelium, the breakage, degradation and damage of elastic fibers and collagen fibers. Any factors that can cause these changes can cause abdominal aortic aneurysm.Degeneration of the arterial wall: It is the most common cause of this disease.Genetic and congenital factors: The occurrence of aneurysms is closely related to genetics. The immediate relatives of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm are also prone to aneurysms in various parts; some congenital diseases, such as Marfan syndrome, are prone to aortic aneurysms.Other factors: Factors such as inflammation and infection can also cause abdominal aortic aneurysms.High-risk groupsThe following groups are prone to abdominal aortic aneurysms:SmokersTrauma patientsPatients with dyslipidemia and hypertensionThe elderlyPatients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, etc.
Symptoms: Most patients have no symptoms before rupture, and are often found during physical examinations or other examinations. A few patients may have the following symptoms:Pulsating massFeeling an abnormal pulsation around the navel or in the pit of the stomach. A round, swollen, pulsating mass can be touched on the navel or to the left above the navel, and its pulsation is consistent with the heartbeat.PainMainly pain in the abdomen, waist and back, mostly distending pain or knife-like pain. A huge tumor can compress and erode the vertebral body, causing nerve root pain. Sudden severe abdominal pain is a precursor to rapid expansion or even rupture of the tumor.CompressionThe most common is compression of the gastrointestinal tract, which manifests as upper abdominal distension and discomfort, and decreased appetite.Compression of the renal pelvis and ureter may cause symptoms related to urinary system obstruction, such as dull pain in the waist and back.Compression of the inferior vena cava can cause deep vein thrombosis in the lower limbs.Compression of the bile duct can lead to obstructive jaundice.EmbolismOnce the thrombus or atheromatous plaque in the aneurysm cavity falls off, it can be washed to the distal side with the blood, causing lower limb artery embolism, which can manifest as coldness and paleness of the affected limb, and then intermittent claudication, and limb gangrene or ulcers may occur in the later stage.RuptureWhen the aneurysm ruptures, the patient will experience severe abdominal pain or back pain, and severe hypotension. After rupture, retroperitoneal hematoma is generally formed first, and the patient may show bilateral ecchymosis of the lateral abdominal wall, which may further spread to the perineum. The rupture then breaks into the abdominal cavity, and the patient may die from hemorrhagic shock or myocardial ischemia. Sometimes the rupture can also break into the surrounding intestine, forming an aorta-duodenal fistula, which in turn causes massive gastrointestinal bleeding, and the patient may show vomiting blood and blood in the stool.
How to prevent it: If you have high blood pressure, you should actively treat it, eat a low-salt diet, and keep your blood pressure within the normal range.Live an active and healthy lifestyle, quit smoking and drinking.Actively treat dyslipidemia, control atherosclerosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other chronic diseases.
examine: This disease is mainly diagnosed and evaluated through imaging examinations.Doppler ultrasound: This method is non-invasive, convenient, and economical, and can be used as a screening test. Abdominal aortic aneurysms with a diameter of more than 3 cm can be detected, and can show the size of the aneurysm, the presence of plaques and thrombi.CT: Plain scans and enhanced scans can accurately show the morphology of the aneurysm, its relationship with surrounding organs, and determine whether there are concomitant diseases.Magnetic resonance angiography: Without contrast agents, the location, shape, size, etc. of the lesion can be clearly shown, and realistic images can be provided. It has a high diagnostic value for subacute and chronic hematomas formed by aneurysm rupture.DSA: It is of great value in the diagnosis of thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms, multiple aneurysms, and aortic dissection.
treatment: Different treatment methods are selected for abdominal aortic aneurysms according to the size and risk of the aneurysm. If the diameter of the aneurysm is less than 4cm, ultrasound follow-up can be temporarily performed; if the aneurysm grows rapidly or the diameter is greater than 5cm, surgical treatment should be performed as soon as possible. If the aneurysm shows signs of rupture, regardless of the size of the aneurysm, surgical treatment should be performed immediately; if the abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture is clearly diagnosed, emergency surgery must be performed to save life.Drug treatmentThe main purpose of drug treatment is to control related cardiovascular disease risk factors to reduce the risk of aneurysm rupture and adverse cardiovascular events.Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin II receptor antagonists (ACEI/ARB): not only can lower blood pressure, but also reverse endothelial dysfunction, slow down the process of atherosclerosis, and directly inhibit cardiovascular pathological remodeling.β-blockers: can inhibit the expansion of abdominal aortic aneurysms by lowering blood pressure and inhibiting matrix protein degradation.Statins: Statins are widely used in patients with abdominal aorta. They not only reduce blood lipid levels, but also slow down the progression of atherosclerosis in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms and reduce the risk of adverse cardiovascular events.Antiplatelet drugs: Abdominal aortic aneurysms are often accompanied by mural thrombi. After thrombi are formed, a large number of inflammatory cells and proteolytic enzymes will be produced, thereby accelerating the development of abdominal aortic aneurysms.Surgical treatmentIndications for surgeryDiameter of abdominal aortic aneurysm ≥5cm, or its annual growth rate ≥1cm, or growth rate every six months ≥0.5cm.Abdominal aortic aneurysms with abdominal pain symptoms (including some small aneurysms with irregular shapes, eccentric growth or few mural thrombi).Patients with distal embolism due to thrombus detachment in the tumor.Abdominal aortic aneurysms that have ruptured and are still under active treatment.Patients have a strong desire for surgical treatment.Surgical methodOpen surgery: Mainly refers to the classic surgical method of abdominal aortic aneurysm resection and artificial blood vessel replacement, which was once the only effective method for treating abdominal aortic aneurysms. However, due to the large trauma of open surgery, the surgical risk is high for the elderly or patients with serious medical diseases, and careful evaluation and selection are required.Endovascular repair surgery (minimally invasive surgery): using a stent with an artificial vascular coating to reconstruct a new vascular channel in the tumor cavity, isolating the impact of abdominal aortic hypertension on the tumor wall. Endovascular repair surgery is less invasive, giving many high-risk patients who cannot tolerate traditional surgery a chance to be treated. However, this method is limited by the anatomical conditions of the tumor, and cannot be used for patients with severe renal insufficiency or contrast agent allergy, and may also have serious complications such as endoleak.
Nutrition and Diet: 
Precautions: Quit smoking and drinking, maintain a regular routine and a healthy lifestyle.Eat a light diet, low in salt and fat, eat more vegetables and fruits, have a balanced diet, and eat regularly.Keep bowel movements smooth, avoid straining to defecate, coughing violently, etc. to increase the heart load.Keep a good mood and avoid major mood swings.Avoid strenuous activities and heavy physical labor.
Prognosis: Abdominal aortic aneurysm cannot heal itself. Once the aneurysm ruptures, the mortality rate is extremely high. Timely and effective treatment before the aneurysm ruptures can significantly improve the patient's prognosis and increase the patient's survival rate. For patients who have already experienced a ruptured aneurysm, surgery is required immediately, which is the only way to save lives.
Academic/New Developments: 
