cur_disease_title: Abdominal trauma
cur_disease_others_title: 
Department: Departments: General Surgery, Pediatric Surgery, Hepatobiliary Surgery
introduce: Abdominal trauma can be divided into two categories: closed and open, and is mostly caused by blunt and sharp objects. Simple abdominal wall trauma is usually not accompanied by systemic symptoms. If combined with abdominal visceral trauma, the symptoms are complex and the condition is critical.
Causes: This disease is mainly caused by trauma, the most common of which are:Closed trauma: often caused by blunt force such as falling, impact, squeezing, punching, kicking, etc.Open trauma: often caused by bullets, shrapnel, cold weapons and other sharp weapons, firearms.
Symptoms: Abdominal trauma is mainly manifested by symptoms such as pain, bleeding, and fever.Pain: The abdomen often presents with severe, persistent pain that is unbearable.Bleeding: It often presents with fresh blood gushing out and continuous bleeding.Peritoneal irritation signs: tenderness (in patients with closed injuries, the pain increases when pressing the affected area), rebound pain (a twitching feeling when the fingers are suddenly released from the pressure), and muscle tension (tight abdominal muscles).High fever: The temperature exceeds 38°C and persists.Shock: It is often caused by severe pain and massive blood loss.
How to prevent it: Obey traffic rules and avoid dangerous driving.People working at heights should take protective measures to prevent falling.Stay away from high-rise buildings under construction to avoid being hit by falling objects.
examine: The disease is mainly diagnosed and evaluated through laboratory tests, imaging tests, abdominal puncture, etc.Laboratory testsPerform blood routine tests, blood and urine amylase, etc. to determine whether there is infection, anemia, pancreatic damage, etc.Imaging testsB-ultrasound: Check whether the internal organs are damaged, whether there is abdominal bleeding, and whether there is ascites.X-ray: Observe whether the hollow organs in the abdomen are normal and whether there is abdominal gas accumulation.CT: Check whether the solid organs in the abdomen such as the liver and spleen are damaged.Abdominal puncturePuncture the abdomen to observe whether fluid can be drawn and its properties. The purpose is to infer the type of damaged organ.
treatment: This disease is mainly treated surgically.Minor closed trauma can be temporarily observed. If the injury to the abdominal organs cannot be ruled out after observation, or if the condition does not improve or even worsens during the observation period, the observation should be terminated and laparotomy should be performed.For open trauma and patients with a clear diagnosis, surgical treatment should be performed immediately to control bleeding and maintain blood volume.For patients with unclear causes, but diagnostic punctures produce blood clots or no blood coagulation, or gastric contents indicate that there is organ damage, surgical treatment should also be performed immediately.For patients with unclear causes, diagnostic abdominal punctures do not extract fluid, but the physical signs gradually worsen, laparotomy should also be performed to clarify the cause.
Precautions: Keep the wound clean and dry to prevent infection.If a drainage tube is left after surgery, ensure that the drainage tube is unobstructed and avoid bending and pressure.After recovery, you can exercise appropriately to improve your body's muscle strength and immunity.
Prognosis: If the trauma is serious, it may be life-threatening if not treated in time. Generally, the symptoms can be relieved or eliminated after treatment.
