cur_disease_title: Abdominal abscess
cur_disease_others_title: 
Department: Department: General Surgery
introduce: Abdominal abscess refers to a certain space or part in the abdominal cavity that is wrapped by intestinal flexures, viscera, abdominal wall, omentum or mesentery due to tissue necrosis and liquefaction, forming a localized accumulation of pus.This disease is often secondary to acute intra-abdominal inflammatory lesions or intra-abdominal surgery, and can be divided into subphrenic abscess, pelvic abscess, and intestinal abscess, among which subphrenic abscess is the most common.The main symptoms of this disease include abdominal pain, chills, high fever, loss of appetite, etc.
Causes: Abdominal abscesses are mostly caused by intra-abdominal inflammatory lesions or intra-abdominal surgery.Inflammatory lesions: Inflammatory lesions in the abdominal and pelvic cavities, peritonitis, intestinal perforation, salpingitis, etc., the infection can spread to form abdominal abscesses.Surgery: Abdominal and pelvic surgery such as surgery for hepatobiliary and pancreatic diseases, surgery for intestinal diseases, intrauterine contraceptive device placement, etc. can also lead to abdominal abscesses.
Symptoms: Typical symptomsDepending on the location of the abscess, the symptoms of abdominal abscess vary.Subphrenic abscessSymptoms of toxemia: In the early stage, it is a manifestation of bacterial toxemia, that is, a sudden high fever occurs during surgery or recovery from illness, sometimes with chills, high fever, loss of appetite, rapid or weak pulse rate and even a drop in blood pressure.Pain: Upper abdominal pain, aggravated by deep breathing and turning the body position, is a continuous dull pain, radiating to the shoulders and back. When the abscess is large, there may be distension, shortness of breath, coughing or hiccups. There is pain when the lower abdomen and rib area are tapped and pressed.Edema: If the abscess is superficial, the skin may be edematous and depressed when pressed.Pelvic abscessThe pelvic peritoneum has a small area and a low ability to absorb toxins. The symptoms of systemic poisoning are milder when the abscess occurs. Patients often feel discomfort in the lower waist, have symptoms of rectal irritation such as tenesmus and incomplete defecation, and frequent urination occurs when the bladder is irritated. The abdomen may have deep tenderness in the lower abdomen.Intestinal abscessUnless the abscess is large, the symptoms are generally not serious. It manifests as low fever and dull abdominal pain. Some patients may have incomplete intestinal obstruction, accompanied by systemic poisoning symptoms, fever, fatigue, etc.ComplicationsAbdominal abscess may lead to the following complications:Pleural effusionPleurisyEpithoracesIntestinal fistulaGastric fistulaWhole abdominal infection or necrosisSepsisMultiple organ failure
How to prevent it: Abdominal abscesses are often secondary to postoperative infection of the primary disease. If active treatment can be given at the early stage of infection to gradually dissipate the inflammation, the formation of abscesses can be prevented.Patients with peritonitis and abdominal surgery should take a semi-sitting position to avoid accumulation of intraperitoneal exudate under the diaphragm, and antibiotics should be selected correctly and reasonably.Get out of bed and move as soon as possible after surgery to promote drainage and keep drainage unobstructed.Take a bath frequently, pay attention to keeping the vulva clean, and avoid unclean or uncontrolled sexual life. If a woman suffers from acute pelvic inflammation, she should be treated promptly and effectively to prevent it from developing into a pelvic abscess.
examine: This disease is mainly diagnosed and evaluated through physical examination, blood test, imaging examination, abdominal puncture examination, etc.Physical examinationThe doctor makes a preliminary judgment on the patient's condition through visual examination, palpation, etc.Blood testIncluding blood routine, C-reactive protein, blood biochemistry and other items, which help to understand whether there is infection, the degree of infection, and whether the liver and kidney functions are damaged.Imaging examinationUltrasound: It is the most commonly used method for diagnosing abdominal abscesses, which can determine the location, size, number, and boundaries of the abscess. In addition, ultrasound-guided pus puncture and catheter drainage can also be performed.X-ray: It helps to understand the location and size of the abscess. It is of great significance for the diagnosis of subphrenic abscess.CT: Abdominal wall enhanced CT is the most accurate imaging examination method for diagnosing abdominal abscesses, which can show the location, size, number, and relationship of the abscess with surrounding organs.Abdominal puncture examinationPus extraction or diagnostic puncture can be performed under ultrasound guidance, which helps to distinguish abscesses from non-infectious effusions, and can guide the use of antibiotics through bacterial culture and drug sensitivity tests.
treatment: The treatment principle of abdominal abscess is to use antibiotics to fight infection and symptomatic supportive treatment, and if necessary, it can be combined with abscess puncture or incision drainage.Drug treatmentThe drugs for abdominal abscess are mainly broad-spectrum antibiotics. Once the disease is suspected, it should be started. At the same time, it should be adjusted according to bacterial culture and drug sensitivity test to achieve individualized medication. Commonly used drugs are:Third-generation cephalosporins, such as ceftazidime, cefoperazone, etc.Aminoglycosides, such as amikacin.Quinolones, such as levofloxacin, moxifloxacin; and metronidazole, clindamycin, etc.Antibiotics can be used in combination, and it is best to administer them intravenously. When the infection is severe, adrenal cortex hormones can be used briefly to accelerate the absorption of inflammatory lesions. Commonly used drugs include methylprednisolone, dexamethasone, etc.Surgical treatmentSurgery is a continuation of drug treatment measures. According to the location of the abscess and the patient's general condition, surgical resection and drainage or percutaneous puncture and catheter drainage are used.Other treatments: If the abscess is small or has not yet formed, hot water sitz baths, physical diathermy, and other treatments may be used in addition to antibiotic treatment.
Nutrition and Diet: Eating protein-rich foods can help you recover, such as milk, fish, shrimp, lean meat, etc. Avoid spicy and irritating foods, and avoid greasy foods, such as animal offal and fried foods. Eat more fruits and vegetables, drink more water, keep your bowels open, and avoid increased abdominal pressure when straining to defecate.
Precautions: If a drainage tube is left after surgery, always prevent the tube from being compressed, twisted, or folded.After the condition improves, you can do sports such as jogging and walking under the guidance of a doctor.Maintain a good living environment, be quiet and comfortable, clean more often, maintain hygiene, and avoid infection.When the weather is good, ventilate more and keep the indoor air fresh.
Prognosis: Subphrenic abscesses can usually be cured after early detection and treatment, but those with incomplete drainage may relapse.Pelvic abscesses can usually be cured after treatment.Small inter-intestinal abscesses usually have a good prognosis after treatment, but those with large abscesses and intestinal lesions are prone to intestinal fistulas.
