cur_disease_title: Abnormal pregnancy
cur_disease_others_title: 
Department: Department of treatment: Obstetrics Gynecology Obstetrics and Gynecology
introduce: Abnormal pregnancy refers to abnormal phenomena that may occur during pregnancy.The clinical manifestations of abnormal pregnancy include: hyperemesis gravidarum, miscarriage, ectopic pregnancy, high-risk pregnancy, pregnancy-induced hypertension syndrome, placenta previa, placental abruption, premature birth, overdue pregnancy, polyhydramnios or oligohydramnios, intrauterine growth retardation, stillbirth, multiple births, maternal-fetal blood type incompatibility, umbilical cord abnormalities, premature rupture of membranes, etc.
Causes: Abnormal pregnancy has various clinical manifestations, and the causes cannot be generalized. For details, please refer to related diseases. Here are only the causes of some diseases.Hyperemesis gravidarum: The cause of hyperemesis gravidarum is still unclear, but it may be related to endocrine factors, mental and social factors, Helicobacter pylori infection, trace element deficiency, etc.Abortion: Spontaneous abortion is a relatively complex disease, which is related to embryonic factors, maternal factors (including chromosome factors of both couples, immune factors, thrombophilia factors, anatomical factors, endocrine factors, infection factors, psychological factors, etc.), male factors, environmental factors, etc. Artificial abortion is a medical behavior actively chosen by patients.Ectopic pregnancy: Ectopic pregnancy is the most common in fallopian tube pregnancy, accounting for about 95%. The fertilized egg should enter the uterus through the fallopian tube to implant, but there is a problem in a certain part of the patient's fallopian tube. After the fertilized egg is blocked in this part, it begins to implant and develop in this part, that is, an ectopic pregnancy is formed.Risk factorsPatients with the following high-risk factors are prone to abnormal pregnancy:Weak constitution, malnutrition, and trace element deficiency.Mental stress, anxiety, worry, etc.Overwork during pregnancy.Accompanied by various chronic diseases or pathogen infection.Heavy smoking, alcoholism, drinking a lot of coffee or other caffeinated beverages, and drug abuse.
Symptoms: Abnormal pregnancy has various clinical manifestations, and only some of them are listed here.Hyperemesis gravidarumMost hyperemesis gravidarum occurs before 10 weeks of pregnancy, and the typical manifestations are nausea and vomiting around 6 weeks of pregnancy. As the pregnancy progresses, it gradually worsens, with different severity, and severe cases can cause death.AbortionEarly abortion (before 12 weeks): The embryo usually dies before the pregnancy is discharged. Vaginal bleeding occurs first, followed by the discharge of the embryo and its appendages, and paroxysmal abdominal pain occurs. After the embryo-related substances are completely emptied, the uterus contracts and the bleeding stops.Late abortion (12 weeks to 28 weeks): Paroxysmal abdominal pain occurs first, followed by vaginal bleeding. Cervical dilation and fetal membrane bulging can be observed. There are often signs of life when the embryo is discharged, mostly due to abnormal uterine structure or cervical insufficiency.Ectopic pregnancyAmenorrhea: Most pregnant women with ectopic pregnancy have long-term amenorrhea, but some pregnant women do not have clear amenorrhea and think it is abnormal menstruation.Vaginal bleeding: usually less than menstrual flow, may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting, a feeling of heaviness, and a feeling of needing to have a bowel movement but not being able to pass it.Abdominal or pelvic pain.
How to prevent it: Abnormal pregnancy is related to many factors. Taking the following measures in life can help reduce the risk of disease:Actively conduct psychological counseling during pregnancy and solve negative psychological problems such as tension and anxiety in time.Eat small amounts and multiple times, pay attention to balanced nutrition, and supplement trace elements.Actively treat underlying diseases and ensure good overall health during pregnancy as much as possible.Protective measures should be taken during the high-incidence season of infectious diseases to avoid pathogen infection.After learning of pregnancy, you should adjust your life and work rhythm in time to avoid excessive fatigue and excessive mental stress.Improve your lifestyle, exercise moderately, eat healthily, and quit smoking and drinking.
examine: There are many clinical manifestations of abnormal pregnancy, and the examination methods that may be used are:Inquiry into medical history: The purpose is to understand the patient's symptoms, onset time, disease progression, etc., and make a preliminary judgment on the condition.Physical examination: Including measurement of vital signs, general visual examination and gynecological examination.Routine blood test: The purpose is to measure the number of red blood cells and hemoglobin, to understand whether the blood is concentrated and its severity.Biochemical indicators: The purpose is to measure the content of serum potassium, sodium, and chloride, and to determine whether there is electrolyte disorder.Urine examination: The purpose is to check the amount, specific gravity, protein, etc. of urine, to determine whether the kidneys are affected, and to assess the severity of dehydration and electrolyte disorder.B-ultrasound examination: B-ultrasound examination is helpful in diagnosing ectopic pregnancy.Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG): Urine or blood HCG measurement is crucial for the early diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. In ectopic pregnancy, the HCG level in the body is lower than that in intrauterine pregnancy.
treatment: Abnormal pregnancy has various clinical manifestations, and the treatment methods cannot be generalized. For details, please refer to the relevant diseases. Here are only the treatment methods of some diseases.Hyperemesis gravidarumDrug treatmentVitamins: Nutritional support, supplement the required vitamins. Commonly used drugs include oral vitamin B6, vitamin B6 doxerase complex preparations, etc.Glucose: replenish lost body fluids. Commonly used 5% glucose injection.Antiemetics: quickly relieve the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, and avoid further loss of body fluids. Commonly used drugs include metoclopramide, ondansetron, promethazine, and methylprednisolone.AbortionDrug treatmentProgesterone: Luteal support to maintain pregnancy. Commonly used drugs include dydrogesterone, progesterone, etc.Oxytocin: When the outcome of abortion cannot be changed, oxytocin can be used to promote the discharge of pregnancy products.Surgical treatmentCervical cerclage: For patients with late threatened abortion caused by cervical insufficiency, the purpose is to cervical cerclage to allow the fetus to continue to develop in the uterus, thereby maintaining pregnancy.Uterine curettage: The purpose is to remove the intrauterine abortion products of patients with early abortion. After the operation, the abortion products will be sent for pathological examination. If necessary, the chromosome karyotype analysis of the abortion products can be performed to clarify the cause of abortion.Curettage: The purpose is to remove the pregnancy products remaining in the uterine cavity of patients with late abortion.Ectopic pregnancyDrug treatmentMethotrexate: It is the most widely used and most effective drug. It is suitable for early ectopic pregnancy without rupture and obvious intraperitoneal bleeding.Mifepristone: It can cause the degeneration of chorionic tissue and atrophy of decidual tissue, leading to embryonic death. It is often used in combination with methotrexate.Fluorouracil: It can cause the villi to degenerate and necrotize, achieving the purpose of killing the embryo.Potassium chloride: It acts on the fetal heart to cause incomplete contraction and fetal death. It is often used in combination with methotrexate for ectopic pregnancy with fetal heart beat.Surgical treatmentRadical surgery: It is the most basic and most commonly used surgical method.Conservative surgery: It can remove the pregnancy products and preserve the fallopian tubes.
Precautions: Avoid strenuous exercise and overwork.Avoid high tension and mental stimulation, maintain an optimistic mood, and ensure adequate sleep.Regular check-ups as required by the doctor.Eat semi-liquid, light and easily digestible food, avoid greasy food, desserts and irritating food, "eat small meals frequently" and avoid overeating. Supplement vitamins appropriately.
Prognosis: Ectopic pregnancy may have a variety of outcomes depending on the location of the pregnancy, the time of consultation, whether the diagnosis and treatment are timely, etc.If the ectopic pregnancy occurs in the ampulla of the fallopian tube, it may be spontaneously aborted or absorbed.If the ectopic pregnancy is not discovered in time, acute abdominal pain, fallopian tube rupture or intraperitoneal bleeding may occur. Timely treatment can save lives, but failure to treat in time may cause shock or even death.
