cur_disease_title: Abnormal fetal position
cur_disease_others_title: (Also known as: malposition of the fetus)
Department: Department of treatment: Obstetrics and Gynecology
introduce: The normal fetal position should be occiput anterior, that is, the longitudinal axis of the fetus is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the mother, the fetal head is at the entrance of the pelvis and flexed, the chin is close to the chest wall, the spine is slightly bent forward, the limbs are bent and crossed in front of the chest and abdomen, and the whole fetus is oval. In addition, the rest are abnormal fetal positions, including head presentation dystocia (persistent occiput transverse position, persistent occiput posterior position, high upright position of the fetal head, uneven anterior tilt, face presentation, compound presentation), breech presentation and shoulder presentation.
Causes: Basic causesThe fetus has too much range of movement in the uterine cavity: the abdominal wall of multiparous women is loose and the amniotic fluid of premature babies is relatively high, so the fetus can move freely in the uterine cavity.The fetus has limited range of movement in the uterine cavity: uterine malformations (such as unicornuate uterus, bicornuate uterus, etc.), fetal malformations (such as anencephaly, hydrocephalus, etc.), twin pregnancy and too little amniotic fluid, etc.The fetus has difficulty in receiving the fetal position: narrow pelvis, placenta previa, tumor blocking the pelvic cavity and giant fetus, etc.Risk factorsPremature birthObese mothers, older mothers
Symptoms: Symptoms of abnormal fetal position vary according to the fetal position. Common symptoms include prolonged labor, difficulty in the fetal head entering the pelvis, stagnation of the fetal head descent, weak uterine contractions, and severe cases of fetal distress, which may endanger the life of the mother.Cephalic dystocia: no symptoms during pregnancy. Often after labor, there are slow labor progress and secondary uterine contractions, and vaginal examination can be used to diagnose it.Buttock presentation: Compared with the cephalic position, the breech presentation has no other special self-feeling except that pregnant women often feel a round and hard fetal head at the bottom of the uterus.During physical examination, a round and hard fetal head can be felt at the bottom of the uterus, and sometimes there is a floating ball feeling when pressed; irregular, soft and wide fetal buttocks can be felt above the pubic symphysis, and the fetal heart rate can be heard most clearly on the upper left (or right).After labor, because the fetal buttocks cannot be close to the lower segment of the uterus and the cervix, it often leads to weak uterine contractions and slow cervical dilation, resulting in prolonged labor.Due to the irregular shape of the fetal buttocks, the pressure on the anterior amniotic sac is uneven, which can easily lead to premature rupture of the membranes and possible premature birth. The incidence of umbilical cord prolapse is 10 times that of head presentation (which can cause fetal distress or even death). Due to the difficulty in pulling out the posterior fetal head, the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage is 10 times that of head presentation.Shoulder presentation:The uterus in shoulder presentation is transversely oval, the height of the uterine fundus is lower than the gestational age, the fetal head or fetal buttocks cannot be touched at the uterine fundus, the upper part of the pubic symphysis is empty, and the transverse diameter of the uterine body is wider than that of normal pregnancy. The fetal head can be touched on one side and the fetal buttocks can be touched on the other side.In the anterior shoulder presentation, the fetal back faces the maternal abdominal wall and is flat to the touch; in the posterior shoulder presentation, irregular small limbs can be touched. The fetal heart rate is most clearly heard on both sides of the umbilicus. Abdominal examination can often be accurately positioned.In shoulder presentation, the cervix cannot be fully opened, and the fetal body is embedded above the pelvis. It is difficult for the shoulder presentation to effectively expand the lower segment of the uterus and the internal cervical os, which can easily lead to uterine atony.Shoulder presentation creates uneven pressure on the anterior amniotic sac and can easily lead to premature rupture of membranes. After rupture of membranes, the volume of the uterine cavity decreases, and the fetus is easily wrapped and folded by the uterine wall. As labor progresses, a neglected (incarcerated) shoulder presentation, which is the most unfavorable to the mother, may form. As uterine contractions continue to increase, a pathological contraction ring that heralds uterine rupture may form. Rupture of membranes may lead to prolapse of the umbilical cord and upper limbs, increasing fetal distress and even stillbirth rates.
How to prevent it: Sexual intercourse is prohibited in late pregnancy.Treat lower reproductive tract infection as soon as possible.Pay attention to nutritional balance and supplement sufficient nutrients such as vitamins, calcium, zinc, etc.Control prenatal weight and maintain body muscle strength.Have regular prenatal check-ups.
examine: Different abnormal fetal positions are discovered at different times. Head dystocia is often discovered after labor; breech presentation and shoulder presentation can be discovered during prenatal examinations. The specific examination methods are as follows:Physical examination: palpation to assess fetal position.Color Doppler ultrasound examination: determine fetal position.Vaginal digital examination: palpation to assess fetal position.
treatment: Abnormal fetal position will bring different degrees of difficulty and danger to delivery, so early correction of fetal position is of great significance for the prevention of dystocia.Symptomatic treatmentCephalic presentation dystocia: persistent posterior chin position, uneven anterior tilt position, and high straight posterior position require cesarean section to terminate pregnancy. Other cephalic presentation dystocia also require cesarean section to terminate pregnancy after sufficient vaginal trial delivery and relative cephalopelvic disproportion, fetal distress, etc.Buttocks presentation:Pregnancy: Before 30 weeks of pregnancy, buttocks presentation can usually turn to head presentation on its own. If it is still buttocks presentation after 30 weeks of pregnancy, it should be corrected. Commonly used correction methods are:Chest-knee position: pregnant women empty their bladders, loosen their belts, and lie on their chests and knees 2-3 times a day for 15 minutes each time. Do it for 1 week and then check again. This position can make the fetal buttocks withdraw from the pelvic cavity, and naturally complete the head presentation with the help of the change in the center of gravity of the fetus, with a success rate of more than 70%.Laser irradiation or moxibustion on Zhiyin acupoint: In recent years, laser irradiation is often used on both sides of Zhiyin acupoint (outside of the little toe, 0.1 inch away from the corner of the toenail). Moxa stick moxibustion can also be used, once a day, 15-20 minutes each time, 5 times as a course of treatment.External version: If the above correction methods are ineffective, external version should be performed at 32-34 weeks of pregnancy. Because of the possibility of serious complications such as placental abruption and umbilical cord entanglement, it should be used with caution. Take 10 mg of ritodrine orally half an hour before the operation. When performing external version, it is performed under B-type ultrasound monitoring. The pregnant woman lies flat, with both lower limbs flexed and slightly abducted to expose the abdominal wall. Check the fetal position and listen to the fetal heart rate. The steps include loosening the fetal presenting part and turning the fetus. The movements should be gentle and intermittent. If frequent and violent fetal movements and abnormal fetal heart rate are found during or after the operation, the rotation should be stopped and returned to the original position and observed for half an hour. External version has risks, so choose carefully.Delivery period: The correct judgment should be made in the early stage of labor to determine the delivery method based on the mother's age, parity, pelvic size, fetal size, fetal survival, breech presentation type, and the presence or absence of complications.Indications for selective cesarean section for full-term breech presentation: narrow pelvis, abnormal soft birth canal, fetal weight greater than 3500 grams, fetal distress, pregnancy complications (such as hypertension, diabetes), advanced primiparous age, ultrasound showing excessive extension of the fetal head, umbilical cord presentation or knee presentation, history of dystocia, incomplete breech presentation, scarred uterus, etc., all should undergo cesarean section.Conditions for vaginal delivery: Gestational age of not less than 36 weeks; single breech presentation; fetal weight of 2500~3500 grams; no fetal head extension; normal pelvic size; no other indications for cesarean section.Shoulder presentation:Pregnancy period: regular prenatal check-ups, timely detection and correction of shoulder presentation, the method is the same as breech presentation. If the above correction methods are ineffective, external version should be tried to turn the fetus to head first, and the abdomen should be bandaged to fix the fetal head. If it is still unsuccessful, the patient should be hospitalized in advance for delivery.Delivery period: The delivery method should be determined based on the size of the fetus, parity, whether the fetus is alive or not, the degree of cervical dilation, whether the membranes are ruptured, and whether there are complications.Full-term live fetus: Regardless of the degree of cervical dilation and whether the membranes are ruptured, cesarean section should be performed for primiparas. Cesarean section is the first choice for multiparas. If the cervix is ​​more than 5 cm dilated, the membranes have ruptured, the amniotic fluid has not been drained out, and the fetus is not large, an internal version can be performed under general anesthesia or epidural anesthesia to turn the fetus to breech presentation before delivery. In twin pregnancy, if the second fetus is not fixed in time after the first fetus is delivered, and the second fetus becomes shoulder presentation due to a sudden decrease in the uterine cavity volume, an internal version should be performed immediately to turn the second fetus to breech presentation for delivery.If there is a sign of uterine rupture or uterine rupture, regardless of whether the fetus is dead or alive, a cesarean section should be performed to save the life of the pregnant woman; if the uterine rupture is large or there is infection, the uterus can be removed.If the fetus is dead and there is no sign of uterine rupture: the cervix should be fully opened and general anesthesia should be used for decapitation or fetal rupture. After the operation, routinely check whether there are lacerations in the lower uterine segment, cervix and vaginal soft birth canal, repair and suture in time, and prevent postpartum hemorrhage and puerperal infection.
Precautions: Pay attention to a diet rich in high-quality protein, but do not deliberately eat foods with too much fat. Including stewed pork ribs and pig's trotters, eat the meat without drinking the soup, which contains a lot of fat and no protein.During pregnancy, especially in the third trimester, you should avoid coughing, constipation, and lifting heavy objects to prevent sudden increase in abdominal pressure and premature rupture of membranes.It is not advisable to sit or lie for a long time, and increase gentle activities such as walking, rubbing the abdomen, and turning the waist.Avoid cold and bloating foods, such as watermelon, snails, clams, yams, beans, milk, etc.The bowel movement should be smooth, and it is best to have a bowel movement every day.
Prognosis: If abnormal fetal position can be prevented or diagnosed early, and active measures are taken to correct the fetal position and the correct delivery method, the prognosis is generally good.
