cur_disease_title: Abnormal vaginal discharge
cur_disease_others_title: 
Department: Department of treatment: Gynecology, Obstetrics and Gynecology
introduce: Abnormal leucorrhea refers to abnormal leucorrhea secreted by women due to various diseases. Leucorrhea is the liquid that flows out of the vagina. It is a general term for secretions from the vagina, cervix, and uterus. It contains vaginal epithelial exfoliated cells, white blood cells, and lactobacilli. Normal leucorrhea is usually white and odorless.The main symptoms of this disease are abnormal leucorrhea secretion volume, properties, or odor, such as foamy, yellow leucorrhea, and even bloody leucorrhea.
Causes: This disease is caused by various infectious and non-infectious factors, and its occurrence is mainly related to the following factors:Infection: chronic cervicitis, endocervicitis, endometritis, senile vaginitis, trichomonas vaginitis, candidal vaginitis, etc. In addition, gonococci and tuberculosis can be the cause of the disease, and syphilis spirochetes can easily cause suppurative infection.Tumor: common in uterine cancer, cervical cancer, uterine cancer, vaginal tumors, fallopian tube cancer, etc.Drug factors: such as the use of estrogen. (The formation of leucorrhea is related to estrogen. When estrogen secretion reaches its peak, leucorrhea will appear in large quantities and transparent state)
Symptoms: Abnormal leucorrhea refers to abnormal leucorrhea secretion volume, properties or odor. The symptoms vary depending on the specific cause of the disease.It should be noted that leucorrhea is generally less before ovulation. With the arrival of ovulation, leucorrhea will become thinner and transparent, and appear to be in a state of being able to be drawn, like egg white, and the volume will also increase. After ovulation, leucorrhea will gradually become viscous and paste-like, with a slightly sour taste. These are all normal manifestations and are not pathological.Typical symptomsAbnormal leucorrhea secretion volume: large or small.Abnormal leucorrhea color: yellow, green, bloody, purulent, etc.Abnormal leucorrhea properties: bean dregs, curd, watery, foamy, etc.Abnormal leucorrhea odor: fishy, ​​smelly, lily, etc., indicating that there may be special bacterial infection.Other symptomsIn addition to the above manifestations, this disease may also have the following symptoms:Vulvar itchingDiscomfort urinationLower abdominal pain
How to prevent it: The causes of this disease are complex and cannot be completely prevented. The following methods may help reduce the risk of abnormal vaginal discharge:Do not use public bath towels, bathtubs, etc., and pay attention to swimming pool hygiene to prevent abnormal vaginal discharge caused by infection. Pay attention to personal hygiene, change underwear and wash the vulva frequently.Diabetic patients need to take medication to control blood sugar to avoid endocrine abnormalities caused by abnormal blood sugar and symptoms of abnormal vaginal discharge.
examine: The diagnosis of this disease is mainly based on medical history and routine examination of leucorrhea. The specific examination methods are as follows:pH value: helps to determine whether there are bacteria or inflammation in the vagina.Vaginal cleanliness: helps to determine whether there is vaginal or cervical inflammation.Fungus and Trichomonas: If the results of routine examination of leucorrhea show positive for Trichomonas, it means that there is Trichomonas vaginitis; if the results show positive for fungi, there may be fungal vaginitis (also called vulvovaginal candidiasis).Clue cells: If the clue cell results are positive, it means that there is bacterial vaginosis.Amine test: helps to diagnose bacterial vaginosis.
treatment: The treatment of abnormal leucorrhea mainly includes cleaning the vulva and treating the cause.Cleaning the vulvaWhen leucorrhea is abnormal or the vulva is itchy, the doctor will first recommend cleaning the vulva, 1 to 2 times a day, usually with warm water.Observe for about 3 days. If the discomfort is relieved, you can observe. If there is no improvement, you must go to the hospital for examination as soon as possible to avoid long-term and repeated inflammation caused by wrong medication, and self-medication may affect the examination results and the doctor's judgment.Etiology treatmentTreat the disease that causes abnormal leucorrhea accordingly.
Precautions: There are no special precautions for diet. You can choose easily digestible foods rich in vitamins and crude fiber, avoid overeating, eat less greasy and spicy foods, and avoid smoking and drinking.Exercise moderately, keep your body and mind happy, pay attention to rest, and do not overwork to improve immunity.Loose, pure cotton underwear should be used, and it should be changed frequently and fully dried in the sun before use.Clean the private parts regularly and keep them clean.It is not advisable to have sex during treatment.
