cur_disease_title: Accessory Breast
cur_disease_others_title: (Also known as: polymastia, polymastia, extra breast, ectopic breast)
Department: Department of treatment: Breast Surgery Department of Plastic Surgery
introduce: Accessory breasts are also called multiple breast deformities, polymastia, ectopic breasts, extra breasts, and aberrant breasts. They refer to extra breasts that appear in addition to a pair of normal breasts. Accessory breasts are commonly found in the armpits and in front of the armpits, and can also appear around normal breasts, in the abdomen, in the groin, and other parts.This disease is a congenital abnormal breast development disease caused by the failure or incomplete degeneration of the original breasts during the fetal period, and it can also occur in men.
Causes: The formation of accessory breasts is due to congenital developmental abnormalities and may be related to genetic factors.
Symptoms: Accessory breasts often present as swelling or bulges in front of or under the armpits. Some accessory breasts also occur in the abdomen, groin and other parts of the body. They can be affected by sex hormones and cause pain, enlargement and even lactation.Accessory breasts can also change with the menstrual cycle like normal breast tissue, and have periodic swelling and pain symptoms such as breast hyperplasia. A series of lesions such as accessory breast fibroadenoma, accessory breast nipple bleeding and accessory breast cancer can occur.
How to prevent it: Accessory breasts are a congenital developmental abnormality and there is currently no effective way to prevent them.
examine: This disease is mainly diagnosed by ultrasound examination and molybdenum target X-ray examination, and pathological examination is required if necessary.Ultrasound examination: It is the most effective and most commonly used method for diagnosing accessory breast, and it is of decisive significance for diagnosis.Molybdenum target X-ray: It is a special breast X-ray examination, generally used as an auxiliary examination for ultrasound examination. It is used to determine whether there is calcification or a small mass that is difficult to determine by ultrasound examination.Pathological examination: If the patient finds that the accessory breast has rapidly increased in a short period of time, and ultrasound examination indicates that the mass has unclear boundaries and is adhered to surrounding tissues, a puncture biopsy is required for pathological examination to determine whether accessory breast cancer has occurred.
treatment: For some accessory breasts that are not fully developed, small in size, without discomfort and do not affect the appearance, no treatment can be done temporarily. However, if the patient feels that it affects the appearance or is worried about cancer, surgical removal can be considered.Surgical treatmentSurgical treatment can be considered in the following situations:The accessory breast is large and affects daily life.The accessory breast has symptoms such as pain and lactation.When a lump appears in the accessory breast and is suspected of being malignant after examination.The main surgical methods include:Accessory breast removal: Accessory breast removal under general anesthesia. At present, the surgical technology is mature and the probability of complications is low.Minimally invasive excision: It is performed under ultrasound guidance and is suitable for patients with small accessory breasts and has less trauma.Liposuction: Liposuction under local anesthesia, with less trauma, quick recovery after surgery, no impact on the patient's daily life, and a low probability of postoperative complications.
Precautions: Pay attention to hygiene and ensure the cleanliness of the local skin of the accessory breast.Choose the right underwear with the right size.Avoid rubbing, pressing, and stimulating the accessory breast, and avoid informal breast massage.Adjust your life, maintain a good mental state, participate in sports activities appropriately, eat a light diet, and refuse bad living habits.See a doctor in time when you find a lump in the accessory breast.Perform breast ultrasound and mammography examinations regularly.
Prognosis: Accessory breasts cannot heal without surgical treatment. When there are no complications, the prognosis is usually good and does not affect normal life.Accessory breasts include normal breast tissue, so all breast diseases that can occur in normal breasts may occur in accessory breasts, such as accessory breast hyperplasia, accessory breast fibroma, accessory mastitis, and accessory breast cancer.When combined with accessory breast cancer, the prognosis is usually poor.
