cur_disease_title: Achalasia
cur_disease_others_title: (Also known as: megaesophagus, cardia spasm)
Department: Department of Gastroenterology, General Surgery
introduce: Achalasia is a primary esophageal motility disorder characterized by lower esophageal sphincter relaxation disorder and esophageal body aperistalsis. It is also known as megaesophagus or cardia spasm. This disease can occur in all age groups, but is more common in people aged 30-40.Under normal circumstances, when swallowing, the lower esophageal sphincter relaxes, and the connection between the esophagus and the stomach opens, allowing food and liquid to enter the stomach smoothly with the peristalsis of the esophagus. In patients with achalasia, the peristalsis of the esophagus is reduced and the function of the lower esophageal sphincter is weakened, so that the passage between the esophagus and the stomach cannot be completely opened, resulting in food accumulation and retention at the bottom of the esophagus. Clinical manifestations include dysphagia, pain behind the sternum, food reflux, and cough and lung infection caused by food reflux and accidental inhalation into the trachea.
Causes: This disease can be divided into primary and secondary types according to the cause.The cause of primary achalasia is still unclear, and it may be related to neurological, genetic, mental and viral infection factors.Secondary achalasia is caused by diseases that cause esophageal motility abnormalities. Common diseases include trypanosomiasis, neurofibromatosis, eosinophilic esophagitis, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, lung cancer, liver cancer, pancreatic cancer, etc.
Symptoms: There may be no symptoms in the early stage of the disease. As the disease progresses, symptoms such as dysphagia, food regurgitation, pain and discomfort behind the sternum, and weight loss may gradually appear. If the reflux material involves the respiratory tract, respiratory symptoms such as coughing, sputum, and dyspnea may also occur.
How to prevent it: The cause of this disease is still unclear and there is currently no effective prevention method.
examine: This disease is mainly diagnosed through barium meal contrast, gastroscopy, and esophageal dynamics test.Esophageal barium meal contrast: The doctor will let the patient drink the prepared barium meal and take an X-ray for the patient. It is the preferred method for diagnosing this disease. If there is a typical manifestation of bird-like changes at the lower end of the esophagus, the disease can be diagnosed.Gastroscopy: The internal conditions of the esophagus can be directly observed through the gastroscopy, which can be used to rule out organic stenosis or tumors.Esophageal dynamics test: It can be used to check whether the esophagus can work normally. The specific method is: a small tube is slowly passed from one nostril to the throat and then into the esophagus. At this time, the patient is asked to swallow a small amount of water, measure the pressure of the lower esophageal sphincter, and observe the peristalsis of the esophagus.
treatment: There is no cure for this disease, and the main purpose of treatment is to relieve symptoms. The main treatment methods include drug therapy, balloon dilation therapy, botulinum toxin injection therapy and surgical treatment.Drug therapyCommonly used drugs include nitrates and calcium channel blockers (such as nifedipine), which can relax the lower esophageal sphincter and relieve symptoms such as dysphagia and pain. It is only effective for some patients, and the effect usually deteriorates after one year of treatment.Balloon dilation therapyThe balloon is placed at the end of the esophagus through an endoscope, and the lower esophageal sphincter is dilated by inflating the balloon. This treatment method is effective for most patients, but some patients need multiple treatments to improve symptoms. Balloon expansion may cause esophageal rupture.Botulinum toxin injection therapyBotulinum toxin is injected into the lower esophageal sphincter through an endoscope to relax it. The effect can last for several months, and a small number of people can last for several years.It is suitable for people who have failed drug treatment, have a high risk of lower esophageal sphincter dilation and surgical treatment, or refuse invasive treatment. It should be noted that repeated injections of botulinum toxin will make future surgeries and dilations more difficult, and the postoperative effect is poor.Surgical treatmentIt is divided into endoscopic minimally invasive surgery and surgical treatmentPeroral endoscopic myotomy (POEM)Under endoscopic guidance, a tunnel is established between the esophageal mucosa and the submucosal layer, the muscle fibers of the lower esophageal sphincter are separated and incised to relax the cardia, thereby restoring the function of the esophagus. The surgery is less traumatic, the recovery is faster, and the complications are fewer.Cardiac myotomy (Heller surgery)The muscle fibers of the lower esophageal sphincter are cut off under thoracoscopy or laparoscopy, which can permanently relieve the symptoms of dysphagia.It is suitable for patients who are ineffective with other treatments, but it is easy to cause gastroesophageal reflux, so many people advocate additional anti-reflux surgery.
Nutrition and Diet: Try to avoid eating solid foods that are difficult to digest.Eat small and frequent meals. You can change three meals a day to 4-5 meals a day, and eat 60-70% full at each meal.Drink appropriate amounts of water during meals to help food pass through the esophagus.If swallowing difficulties are severe, it is best to eat liquid food for a period of time.If you lose a lot of weight, you may have malnutrition and should inform your doctor in time.
Precautions: Establish a regular schedule, exercise properly, and maintain a healthy lifestyle.Avoid solid foods that are difficult to digest. If swallowing difficulties are severe, it is best to eat liquid food for a period of time.Some patients with achalasia are at risk of esophageal cancer, so regular endoscopy examinations are required.
Prognosis: If this disease is treated regularly, most patients can achieve good results and their quality of life will not be affected. However, a small number of patients may develop esophageal cancer, which not only affects their quality of life but may also endanger their lives.
